Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this election we're going to go through a new loop.
Well kind of new we've mentioned it in the past it's the range based for loop and it's designed for
iterating through collections or technically speaking a range.
You'll never guess what we've got a t array is a collection and also a range of f strings but it could
be a collection of any different types.
And this will make our code easier to read now.
So it's going to be easy to read.
Let's actually have a look at how a range based for loop is constructed.
So we have it starting much like a normal for loop we go for we open up parentheses and then we have
a variable created specifically for this loop and we'll give it a certain type as well because we need
to declare what type that variable happens to be and then we have our colon and then the data where
are we pulling the information from now because this range based for loop is designed to iterate over
an entire collection or the entire range.
We can't really use it for anything else but it doesn't mean we don't need to refer to any indices with
in that collection.
It's just going to go step by step through and the variable that we've just created for this loop will
be initialized to the first element of this array and then on the next loop it will be assigned the
second element and so on and then underneath we will have the code executing which does mean we will
have to change some of the code that is beneath to reference the temporary variable rather than the
index of a certain array and I would really like you to stretch yourself on this one.
We've played a lot with for loops now and I'd like to dive straight into the challenge.
It's going to be a bit of a stretch for some of you but it's absolutely fine.
Try your best and let's see what you come up with.
It's a swap out our current for loop in the get valid words function that we've just created and what
we're going to replace it with is a range based for loop check your code as it will need changing is
not going to work straight out of the box.
So little hint here that we're not going to be referring to the index any more because that is built
into this range based for loop so we can say goodbye to those square brackets with the index in them
supports the video now and give that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's dive over into V.S. code and create our range based for loop okay.
Everybody welcome back.
Let's go ahead and see how we're going to go about doing this range space for loop.
The first thing I'm going to do is grab everything within the parentheses here and get rid of it.
We know we're going to be handling f string so let's go and put that in and then we're going to need
the variable that we're going to use throughout this loop.
And we do have to be careful about what it's called.
In this particular case I am going to call it word but I am also going to be hyper aware that we have
valid words.
We've got words.
We've got word lists.
So this might get a bit confusing if someone else is reading our code but I think word is fine for the
moment.
Now we've got the code colon in there.
And what are we reaching into and iterating through what is going to be the word list itself.
So the word list.
Okay.
Now if you remember in the challenge I was talking about how we're not referring to indices anymore.
We are literally taking the first element of the word list initializing it to this new variable and
then we're going to it's right through the container or the range itself.
So what does that mean.
That means that everything that we've referred to the word lists index can be changed out for just word.
We do still need to cool things like the length function on it so that we can assess it against they
and insert your hair otherwise that wouldn't work but otherwise we can swap each one of these out this
time.
This is going to be a Find and Replace so with wordless index like a control an F for find and it's
only found for instances of it which is great.
Those are the only four I care about and I'm going to replace it with the word word excellent.
That's all done.
Of course we just need to test to make sure that everything is working as expected and you can really
see how much easier that little section is now to read.
Now scrolling up a little we've got the is icy ground functioning you may have thought oh maybe I'll
use the range based for loop on that I'm going to lead this as it is at the moment I think it will overcomplicate
what we've already got here trying to change it into arranged space for loop but this was a perfect
example of iterating through everything in the collection in this case an array and then taking action
on every single element.
So let's save that go over into a real let's compile and pressed play perfect.
Our code is still working and that means we're successful.
All right.
How did you guys get on.
I know for some of you this would have been a real stretch being able to go through and just wrapping
your noodle around this new way of writing a for loop.
Now do bear in mind if he wants to do something more complex than just iterating over an entire collection
then you're going to have to choose one of the other types of loops.
But this was perfect for what we were doing here.
Please share how you got on over in the discussions and I'll see you all in the next lecture.